The Cow is a very useful pet animal. A successful domestic animal kept by people at home for many purposes. It is a four-footed female animal having a large body, two horns, two eyes, two ears, one nose, one mouth, one head, a big back, and also a stomach. She eats a large amount of food at one time. She gives us milk to make us healthy and strong. It keeps us away from diseases and infections by increasing our immunity power. She is a sacred animal and worshipped in India like a Goddess. She has given the status of Mother in Hindu society and also called “Gau Mata.”

It is a very famous milk-giving animal useful for many purposes. In the Hindu religion, it considered Gau Dan the biggest Dan in the world. The Cow is a sacred animal to Hindus. Cow gives us many benefits throughout her life and even after her death. She gives us milk, calf (either female Cow or male cow ox), co-dung, gau-mutra while living, and lots of leather and strong bones after death.

So, we can say that her whole body is useful to us. We can get lots of products from her like ghee, cream, butter, curd, dahi, whey, condensed milk, a variety of sweets, etc. Her co-dung and urine are highly useful to the farmers for making natural fertilizer for plants, trees and also crops, etc.

She eats green grasses, foods, grains, hay, and other eatable things. Cow uses her one pair of strong, tight horns to attack the people as a defense organ to save her child. She also uses her tail sometimes to attack. She has long hair on the tip of her tail. Cow also has small hair on her body and uses them to frighten away the flies. She has highly helped in human lives for years in many ways.

She has been the reason for our healthy lives for thousands of years. Therefore the origin of the Cow on the earth for nourishing human lives has a great history behind it. We all should know her importance and necessity in our lives and respect her forever. We should never hurt cows and give them proper food and water timely. Cow differs in colour, size, and also shape from region to region. Some cows are small, big, white, or black, and some are of mixed colour.
